MID: <20150706082053.0227429b@cubietruck>
Date: Mon, 6 Jul 2015 08:20:53 +0930
Type: Private
From: smtp:Tuuletar <VJN4455@sailmail.com>
To: smtp:sv.tuuletar@gmail.com
Subject: None
Body: 4288

USER: mark
PASS: qdQx6PmzaMvw
BOAT: Tuuletar
LOGBOOK: Darwin to Broome
POSITION: 12 27.1067 S, 130 49.4082 E
SPEED OVER GROUND: 0.0
HEADING (TRUE): 0.0
WIND SPEED (KTS): 0.0
WIND DIRECTION (TRUE): 0.0
SEA STATE: text
SWELL (M): 0.0
DATE/TIME: 2015-07-04 23:30:00
TITLE: Preparing to depart Darwin
TEXT:
A new leg of the journey, a new logbook.  Darwin to Broome.  We have been looking forward to this leg, the Kimberley coastline.  This is our "rest-time" in what is otherwise a pretty hectic year of covering distance, and it is also our honeymoon.

We are finally getting ready to depart Cullen Bay marina in Darwin.  We originally thought that we would be here for 2 weeks however with the delay in delivery of an engine part as well as the general chaos that could be expected post-wedding we allowed ourselves one more week.

We'll leave Cullen Bay today and head out to anchor off Fannie Bay tonight (Sunday night).  We'll then probably leave very early tomorrow morning and head down the Eastern side of the Joseph Bonaparte Gulf.  We may anchor a night or two on the eastern side of the Gulf as we track down the coast and then cross the Gulf in a single over-nighter when we have a more favourable angle to the wind. 

We got some nice little boat-projects knocked off in the past extra-week.  I spent most of yesterday in the water swimming around the hull inspecting every square-inch.  This will be the last chance I have to do things like check-anodes, rudder and antifouling before we head out of the marina into crocodile-infested waters.  I certainly won't be jumping over the side until we are in Christmas Island which is about 2 months and 2,000nm away.  

I am most-concerned about the rudder-condition as the biggest issues encountered by boats crossing the Indian Ocean seem to be rudder and helm-related issues.  This seems to be due to the boisterous trade-winds and a significant cross-swell which cause the boat to slew heavily downwind and places a lot of stress on your steering gear.  Two years ago a boat had its lower-skeg completely break off and the unsupported rudder ripped a hole in the hull at the upper-bearing - the boat had to be abandoned halfway between Chagos and the Seychelles.  For this reason, we removed our rudder and serviced the lower-skeg bearing while in New Zealand 3 months ago.  All the bolts and rudder still look perfect and secure same as the day we put it in the water.  The hull is in perfect condition.  The boat is in as good a condition as it can be for crossing the Indian Ocean.

It's interesting how, after you have settled down into a marina you develop a kind of "inertia".  Boat projects start up, the boat gets ripped apart and you feel like you will never be ready to leave again.  You manage to find all sorts of niggling issues that suddenly jump up the priority list and you feel like you simply can't leave until they are fixed.  Though the reality is that you lived just fine with the issues before and you will get along just fine after.  It has surprised me how much bluewater cruising is less about actual sailing and more about managing breakages and prioritizing needs from wants.  If a part for your hot-water system, watermaker, fridge, etc. etc. breaks and it means you have to spend a 2 weeks in port waiting on a part then you have to make the call if its worth living without it.  If you wait for everything to be perfect on the boat then you will simply never leave port.

As a result of the above I always find the last few days before leaving a secure port (or going on a passage) a bit stressful.  However, the moment when you are sailing away from the shoreline and accept that there is nothing more that can be done - that you are completely self-sufficient - is pure bliss....  The endless running through your mind of the to-do list fades away into the back of your mind and you simply focus on the present moment.  There's no point thinking anymore about what you should or could have done, no point having any regrets.  To survive you must focus on the present moment, the next shoal, the next rock, the problems and breakages as they come appear.  That almost Zen-like state of living in the present moment out of necessity is, I believe, part of the joy of bluewater cruising. 
no-footer

